you're not alone in this idea that when
you pull away from the fight that the
your partner is like can't have it you
know chases you or doesn't allow it to
happen or like completely falls apart as
a matter of fact like in the
relationship with Tara especially at the
beginning that was the case for me every
time she was like oh I just need a
moment for this to take a break I would
like my whole system would like freak
the [__] out I be like what the hell is
going on here and I would lose I would
totally lose myself and and I didn't
understand it so the reason that this
works is because one person is usually
like the Chaser and one person is
usually like
the okay like and they're kind of the
they're more like the love remover right
so one's like chasing the love and one's
like removing the love typically so for
the person who's the
chaser it is like death internal death
to like be
abandoned and so often times the person
who's the abandoner it's like death to
be chased like oh just like give me a
[__] break give me a moment like
leave me alone for a second I need to
find myself and so both of them feel
that way they feel like like a little
bit of death for the person especially
if it's like a big trauma in their life
no matter what you're doing when you're
leaving a fight it's really important to
do it in
connection so when you're you're leaving
a fight to say hey I need a break I want
to start again in 10 minutes is really
and it's a precise time like hey I'm not
leaving you I'm just taking a minute for
myself I'm going to come back in 10
minutes and we're going to continue the
conversation is a huge thing as compared
to well fine [__] it I'm going to
bed right that's a very different thing
than saying Hey I want to resolve this
and I need a moment right because that
one feels like the removal of love and
one feels like oh they just need some
space and they can come back so how you
leave a fight is incredibly important
because what you need is to feel like
Hey we're still connected we're just
having some conflict that's the most
productive way to leave a fight if you
need to calm your nervous system if you
need to just have a moment to think for
yourself whatever it is or just you
notice that you're about to get angry at
somebody and you don't want to get angry
at them because you don't want to
control them so you need to go out of
the room for a
moment and so the important piece is
like how that fight is left I remember
in this time where I was the angry
person in the relationship with Tera I
was the aggressively angry person she
was the passively angry person right
everybody's angry and every time I would
yell she'd be like I'm out of here and
it was like this death for me and when
we started to learn like hey I I want to
pull out of my anger at so this actually
gives me a break to to get composed and
she would be able to say hey I'll be
back in 10 minutes I'm right here with
you all of a sudden these breaks became
like really great ways to have a fight
it it wasn't a death anymore and she
could do it with an open heart and it
was like Hey I'm okay with you being
angry I just don't want you to be angry
at me I just need a break so that I can
be in myself I'll be back in 5 minutes
minutes all of a sudden our fights
completely
changed is all of a sudden there was
just so much more safety for everybody
she could feel safe because she didn't
have to feel like she was being yelled
at I could feel safe because I didn't
wasn't going to get abandoned and that
like level of safety and Trust allowed
for the conflict to just be so much more
civil so much more loving so much more
openhearted and yet still have the
conflict that we needed so that we could
take our relationship to the next level
[Music]